---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Learning to build a compiler from scratch."
excerpt: "figuring out what goes on under the hood of a compiler and building one in the process."
date:   2024-11-01 14:30:00
mathjax: true
---

<!-- 
<svg width="800" height="200">
	<rect width="800" height="200" style="fill:rgb(98,51,20)" />
	<rect width="20" height="50" x="20" y="100" style="fill:rgb(189,106,53)" />
	<rect width="20" height="50" x="760" y="30" style="fill:rgb(77,175,75)" />
	<rect width="10" height="10" x="400" y="60" style="fill:rgb(225,229,224)" />
</svg>
 -->

    

This post marks the beginning of a new pet project that I have been planning for the longest time.

Compilers have always fascinated me, and I've been wanting to learn more about them for a very long time, and what better time to do that than now.  

My aim with this series of blog posts is to document everything I read, watch, or do regarding compiler design.

I do not know how frequently I will be posting here, as I have very little time during the week to spend on this project, but I do not plan to stop working on It until I feel like I have understood what exactly happens under the hood of a compiler.

### References

I did some basic research on what one might do to get started with building a compiler and here are some resources that I thought would help:

- [Writing a C compiler](https://norasandler.com/2017/11/29/Write-a-Compiler.html) - Blog Series by Nora Sandler
- [Creating a Compiler](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUDlas_Zy_qC7c5tCgTMYq2idyyT241qs) - Youtube Playlist by Pixeled. 
- [How to make a Compiler](https://www.reddit.com/r/ProgrammingLanguages/comments/1475h9o/how_to_make_a_compiler/?rdt=44064) - Reddit Thread on r/ProgrammingLanguages

Nora Sandler's blog series seems to be a great place to start, as it was recommended by a colleague of mine.
### Naming the Project

I know it seems foolish to be thinking about naming something even before I start to work on it, but I think doing so Is exciting and motivates me for some reason.

I searched a lot for name Ideas, and finally settled on <b><i>Petra</i></b>.

Petra means Stone or Rock in Greek, but honestly speaking i just chose the name because It sounded cool, also happens to be the name of a character from [Brawlhalla](www.brawlhalla.com) (a game I played growing up).

### My plan for this blog (or the lack of one...)

I guess the first few posts would be on how compilers work in general. Then i would slowly start implementing one when I find a good architecture to build my programming language on.

I don't expect this blog to be the Holy Grail of compiler design and neither should you. It merely exists to document everything that I learn.

Let's see where this goes! See you soon!